[MUSIC]
In this video, we will discuss a concrete
example of value approximation using
a technique called state aggregation.
We will use Monte Carlo with state
aggregation to approximate the values for
a large random walk domain.
[SOUND] After watching this video,
you will be able to understand how
state aggregation can be used to
approximate the value function and
apply gradient Monte Carlo
with state aggregation.
[SOUND] Let's look at an example
where function approximation can
help speed up learning,
a large random walk task.
The states are numbered from 1 to 1,000
and arranged in a line from left to right.
All episodes will begin in the middle
of the line, at state 500.
There are two actions, left and right.
The left action moves the agent to the
left, but not necessarily just one place.
The agent jumps left to any state
within 100 neighboring states,
uniformly at random.
Likewise, the right action
jumps to the right,
to one of the neighboring 100 states.
Let's evaluate the uniform random policy,
which moves either left or
right with equal probability.
States close to the terminal state,
on the left,
have fewer than 100 neighbors to the left.
All actions that would jump
past the end of the chain
go to the terminal state instead.
Likewise on the right.
Terminating on the left
gives a reward of minus 1,
terminating the right
gives a reward of plus 1.
All other transitions give reward of 0.
The discount gamma is 1.
This task seems fairly simple,
but learning the values for
1,000 states might take a lot of time.
We might benefit from some kind
of function approximation.
[SOUND] Here we will use a technique
called state aggregation.
As the name suggests, state aggregation
treats certain states as the same.
In this table of eight states,
we might choose to aggregate
states together in groups of four.
So now instead of a table of eight entries
for the value function, we just have two.
When we update the value of
any state in the first group,
the values of all the other
states in that group is updated.
State aggregation is another example
of linear function approximation.
There is one feature for
each group of states.
Each feature will be 1 if the current
state belongs to the associated group,
and 0 otherwise.
The approximate value of a state is
the weight associated with the group that
state belongs to.
[SOUND] Let's look at the gradient Monte
Carlo algorithm with state aggregation.
We already know how to compute
the value for a given state.
Now we need to think about how we compute
the gradient of the value function so
that we can use our key update formula.
State aggregation is an example of
linear function approximation, so
the gradient is equal
to the feature vector.
The update rule modifies only the weight
corresponding to the current active group.
Let's think about how this
update rule changes the weight.
If the estimated value was smaller
than the sample of return Gt,
then the weight is increased.
If the estimated value was greater
than the sample of return Gt,
then the weight is decreased.
[SOUND] Let's return
to the random walk and
see how we can apply state aggregation.
First, we have to choose
how we aggregate states.
State aggregation forces states in the
same group to use the same value estimate.
So ideally, we should group states
together if we have reason to believe
their values will be similar.
In this problem, it's an easy choice,
states close together
should have similar values.
Now we have to choose how many
states to put in each group.
If the groups are small, our value
estimates will ultimately be more
accurate, but we'll take longer to learn.
We use ten groups,
each containing 100 states.
This is a nice change from
1,000 states we started with.
[SOUND] Let's step through the gradient
Monte Carlo algorithm to see how it works.
We input the policy,
our chosen state aggregation function, and
a small step-size parameter value.
We initialize the weights to 0.
First, we generate an episode.
Once we have a complete trajectory,
we step through all the states
we visited and make an update.
The return from each state was 1,
because the agent terminated on
the right with a reward of plus 1.
All other transitions generated 0 reward.
Our first update is to state 500,
which belongs to group five.
So we perform a gradient Monte Carlo
update to that weight based on the sample
return of 1.
We do updates like this for
every state in the trajectory.
Eventually, we finish with state 936,
which was the last state we
visited before terminating.
Since state 936 belongs to group ten,
the last update we make is to weight 10.
After all the updates have been made,
our value estimates might
look something like this.
This plot shows the estimates
after a single episode.
We plotted the learn values for
each states from 1 to 1,000.
The state space is not continuous, but
it makes sense to plot
the approximate value as a line.
Notice that the value estimates for
each group are non-negative.
This is because the return for
the first episode was positive and
our initial estimates were 0.
Let's look at the same plot
after another episode.
This time the agent terminated on
the left, getting reward of minus 1.
That means the return from
every state was minus 1.
The weights for
the visited states decreased slightly.
After running for many episodes,
we get state values that
look something like this.
Each step in the plot corresponds
to our group of states that
share the same approximate value.
For comparison,
here's the true value function.
Although we have heavily approximated
by aggregating many states together,
our value estimate is not that far off.
Why doesn't the red line pass directly
through the center of all the blue steps?
This is where mu plays an important role.
Recall mu of s is the visitation
frequency for state s.
States near the center of
the chain are visited more often
than those near the terminal states,
as depicted here.
For example, let's look at the leftmost
group of states, states 1 to 100.
States near state 100 are visited
much more than states near state 1.
The approximate value is skewed towards
the true value for states near state 100.
This is because mu weights these
states higher in the value error.
[SOUND] That's it for this video.
You should now have an idea of how
gradient Monte Carlo works in practice
when combined with state aggregation.
See you next time.